When beginning to write games using LÖVE, the most important parts of the API are the callbacks: love.load to do one-time setup of your game, love.update which is used to manage your game's state frame-to-frame, and love.draw which is used to render the game state onto the screen.

More interactive games will override additional callbacks in order to handle input from the user, and other aspects of a full-featured game.

LÖVE provides default placeholders for these callbacks, which you can override inside your own code by creating your own function with the same name as the callback:

-- Load some default values for our rectangle.
function love.load()
    x, y, w, h = 20, 20, 60, 20
end

-- Increase the size of the rectangle every frame.
function love.update(dt)
    w = w + 1
    h = h + 1
end

-- Draw a coloured rectangle.
function love.draw()
    -- In versions prior to 11.0, color component values are (0, 102, 102)
    love.graphics.setColor(0, 0.4, 0.4)
    love.graphics.rectangle("fill", x, y, w, h)
end
Modules
love.audio	Provides of audio interface for playback/recording sound.
love.data	Provides functionality for creating and transforming data.	Added since 11.0
love.event	Manages events, like keypresses.	Added since 0.6.0
love.filesystem	Provides an interface to the user's filesystem.
love.font	Allows you to work with fonts.	Added since 0.7.0
love.graphics	Drawing of shapes and images, management of screen geometry.
love.image	Provides an interface to decode encoded image data.
love.joystick	Provides an interface to connected joysticks.	Added since 0.5.0
love.keyboard	Provides an interface to the user's keyboard.
love.math	Provides system-independent mathematical functions.	Added since 0.9.0
love.mouse	Provides an interface to the user's mouse.
love.physics	Can simulate 2D rigid body physics in a realistic manner.	Added since 0.4.0
love.sound	This module is responsible for decoding sound files.
love.system	Provides access to information about the user's system.	Added since 0.9.0
love.thread	Allows you to work with threads.	Added since 0.7.0
love.timer	Provides high-resolution timing functionality.
love.touch	Provides an interface to touch-screen presses.	Added since 0.10.0
love.video	This module is responsible for decoding and streaming video files.	Added since 0.10.0
love.window	Provides an interface for the program's window.	Added since 0.9.0
Third-party modules
lua-enet	Multiplayer networking module for games.	Added since 0.9.0
socket	Module for HTTP, TCP, and UDP networking.	Added since 0.5.0
utf8	Provides basic support for manipulating UTF-8 strings.	Added since 0.9.2
Functions
love.getVersion	Gets the current running version of LÖVE.	Added since 0.9.1
love.hasDeprecationOutput	Gets whether LÖVE displays warnings when using deprecated functionality.	Added since 11.0
love.isVersionCompatible	Gets whether the given version is compatible with the current running version of LÖVE.	Added since 0.10.0
love.setDeprecationOutput	Sets whether LÖVE displays warnings when using deprecated functionality.	Added since 11.0
Types
Data	The superclass of all data.
Object	The superclass of all LÖVE types.
Variant	The types supported by love.thread and love.event.
Callbacks
All callbacks are only called in main thread.

General
Config Files	Game configuration settings.
love.draw	Callback function used to draw on the screen every frame.
love.errhand	The error handler, used to display error messages.		Deprecated in 11.0
love.errorhandler	The error handler, used to display error messages.	Added since 11.0
love.load	This function is called exactly once at the beginning of the game.
love.lowmemory	Callback function triggered when the system is running out of memory on mobile devices.	Added since 0.10.0
love.quit	Callback function triggered when the game is closed.	Added since 0.7.0
love.run	The main function, containing the main loop. A sensible default is used when left out.
love.threaderror	Callback function triggered when a Thread encounters an error.	Added since 0.9.0
love.update	Callback function used to update the state of the game every frame.
Window
love.directorydropped	Callback function triggered when a directory is dragged and dropped onto the window.	Added since 0.10.0
love.displayrotated	Called when the device display orientation changed.	Added since 11.3
love.filedropped	Callback function triggered when a file is dragged and dropped onto the window.	Added since 0.10.0
love.focus	Callback function triggered when window receives or loses focus.	Added since 0.7.0
love.mousefocus	Callback function triggered when window receives or loses mouse focus.	Added since 0.9.0
love.resize	Called when the window is resized.	Added since 0.9.0
love.visible	Callback function triggered when window is shown or hidden.	Added since 0.9.0
Keyboard
love.keypressed	Callback function triggered when a key is pressed.
love.keyreleased	Callback function triggered when a keyboard key is released.
love.textedited	Called when the candidate text for an IME has changed.	Added since 0.10.0
love.textinput	Called when text has been entered by the user.	Added since 0.9.0
Mouse
love.mousemoved	Callback function triggered when the mouse is moved.	Added since 0.9.2
love.mousepressed	Callback function triggered when a mouse button is pressed.
love.mousereleased	Callback function triggered when a mouse button is released.
love.wheelmoved	Callback function triggered when the mouse wheel is moved.	Added since 0.10.0
Joystick
love.gamepadaxis	Called when a Joystick's virtual gamepad axis is moved.	Added since 0.9.0
love.gamepadpressed	Called when a Joystick's virtual gamepad button is pressed.	Added since 0.9.0
love.gamepadreleased	Called when a Joystick's virtual gamepad button is released.	Added since 0.9.0
love.joystickadded	Called when a Joystick is connected.	Added since 0.9.0
love.joystickaxis	Called when a joystick axis moves.	Added since 0.9.0
love.joystickhat	Called when a joystick hat direction changes.	Added since 0.9.0
love.joystickpressed	Called when a joystick button is pressed.
love.joystickreleased	Called when a joystick button is released.
love.joystickremoved	Called when a Joystick is disconnected.	Added since 0.9.0
Touch
love.touchmoved	Callback function triggered when a touch press moves inside the touch screen.	Added since 0.10.0
love.touchpressed	Callback function triggered when the touch screen is touched.	Added since 0.10.0
love.touchreleased	Callback function triggered when the touch screen stops being touched.	Added since 0.10.0
